Okay, let's turn the tables
on Bootstrap Tables. We'll talk about Bootstrap support for
tables using the Bootstrap classes. Now when tables were first introduced
into HTML, they were meant for displaying tabular data on a webpage. Tables have been hijacked for many other purposes, something
completely other than tabular data. We have seen people using tables for formatting contents to be
displayed on their pages. Those were the days when
we had no other means of controlling the display of
content on our webpages. Now with the advent of grid
systems like the Bootstrap grid, I don't see any more reason
to continue using tables for matching content on their pages. Now this is one of my pet peeves,
but anyway, aside from that, let's talk about tables as
they're originally intended for. Which is to display tabular
data on our webpages. In HTML of course, the table tag is
meant for displaying tabular data. Bootstrap supplies a class called the table class which
you can apply to the table tag. Now you are wondering, why do we
need a table class for a table tag? A table tag is itself a table. Now Bootstraps intention for using the
table class use to make it very clear that this table is actually being used to
format tabular data in their pitch. That's the reason why they
provide the table class. So we would always see Bootstrap's formatting of tables starting
with the table class. Besides the table class, we have many other table classes
available within Bootstrap. So along with table,
you should be using either table-striped, table-bordered, table-hover,
table-condensed and table-responsive. Now among these, in the exercise,
we will look at the use of table-striped. This creates tables with zebra striped
rows meaning that alternate rows have somewhat darker color than the other rows. So that we can more easily distinguish
between the rows within the table. Table-bordered class puts
borders onto the tables. So in case you want tables
with borders in place, then you could use the table borders. Table-hover works in this way, when you use your mouse to touch
on any of the rows of the table. Then that row will be highlighted for you. You can use table-condensed if you want
to reduce the amount of cell padding that is standard in Bootstrap tables. If you are using tables and
you want your table to be responsive. Meaning that when the table is viewed on extra small screens you still want
the table to be fairly well displayed. Now on extra small screens that is
screen sizes less than 768 pixels, the table is turned into something
that can be scrolled horizontally. So if your entire table is unable to fit
the screen, then Bootstrap will allow that table to be scrolled in order to
be read properly by the users. In addition,
we have five classes that can be used for coloring the table rows,
as well as table cells. There are classes are active,
success, info, warning and danger. We have already seen these in the context
of collage, these adjectives being used. So you can apply these to
either the table rows, or individual cells within your table. This completes our discussion of
tables and Bootstrap table classes.