Let me now talk about
two bootstrap components than can be used to display
content on your webpage. In particular,
about Bootstrap Panels and Wells. Sometimes, within your webpage you may
want to highlight a piece of content. So that it's more clearly
visible to the users. Now, panels and
wells are two ways that you can highlight content with a new webpage so that it's
more easily noticeable to the visitors. Panels as you see,
allows you to display a content inside a bounded box,
as you see in the picture here. Now within this boundary box you can
have a simple boundary around the box. That would be a standard panel. You can also have a panel
heading in place. So in the example that you see on the
screen, we have a panel heading in place. And within the panel heading,
you can specify the content to be displayed in the heading
by using the panel-title class. So here in this example, I am using the panel-title class
being applied to the h3 tag there. And you can see the display off the panel
title in the panel on the right hand side. The panel body itself can
contain any HTML content. Now in this example, I am using a description list in order to show some data about
the restaurant itself. Now this is one way you can
use a description list. In particular,
I am using description list with the class dl-horizontal, so that the term and the description are displayed in
the same horizontal line here. For a panel,
you can also specify a footer. If for your specific use situation
if footer makes more sense, then just like you applied
the panel heading, you can also define a panel footer
to be applied to the panel. Our next Bootstrap component is a Well. A well,
as you'll see from the example here is like a bounded box surrounded
with a light gray background here. Inside this well,
you can include any content. Now to use a well,
you just apply the well class to a div. And inside the div, whatever content
that you include will be enclosed inside this light gray bounded
box as you see on the right side. In this example, you can also
see me using the block quote to display a quotation from the user. When you use a block code,
you will have the content being formatted, as shown in the picture there with a vertical bar on the left side
to highlight what content. For the block code,
we can also specify a footer. There, you can specify
the source of this quotation. Wells can also be qualified
by using the Well LG and Well SM classes to define a large and
a small well. What you see in the picture
is a default sized well. If you would like a larger well,
then together with the well class, you can use the well-lg class. For a small well,
you can use the well-sm class. Finally, we'll move on to the exercise for
this lecture, where we will look at the use of Tables, Panels and
Wells in our webpage. So we will create style and present some tabular data in
the form of a Bootstrap table. And we'll use Bootstrap's table
classes to style the table. We'll also include a panel and
a well onto the webpage.