In this exercise, we're going to
learn about adding tables, panels, and wells in order to display
content in our web page. For this exercise, we're going to use the aboutus.html
page that have already created earlier. And then we'll go in and
add a table there, in the process learn how
Bootstrap tables are styled. Then, we will add a panel
there with some information. And finally, we'll add a well there,
with a quotation. So in this process,
we'll learn about how we can arrange to display content on our web page
in a more interesting manner. Taking a look at the current
state of the aboutus.html page. As you can see in this page, we see that on the right hand side here,
we have some empty space there. So I'm gonna put a panel here
to display some information. And also,
right after the history of the restaurant, I'm gonna put in a well there
in order to display a quotation. And we'll go in to the bottom of this
page, and then add an extra row there. That is where we're going to add a table
of information about this restaurant. Along the way, of course, we will learn about the table classes
that are available in Bootstrap. Going to the HTML code of
the aboutus.html page. In brackets,
right after the Corporate Leadership row, I'm going to add an extra row
there called Facts and Figures. And inside this row, I'm going to
add a table that displays some information about this restaurant. So let me add the code, and I will come
back and review the code in more detail. Let me first show you the result
of adding the table and the row containing the table
to this aboutus.html page. Now, when you look at the web page itself, you will see that now we have a table
there that displaced some information. In particular,
this table is designed in such a way that alternate rows
are in a slightly darker color. So that easily helps us to distinguish
between the rows of the table. This is a class that we use called
table-striped in Bootstrap. Let's look at the code to
understand how we go about creating a table in this web page. Returning to the code,
now you see that I have added another row here using
the row row-content class. Inside that row,
I am declaring a column class here, and inside the column class,
I'm going to include the table. So to create a table, I am enclosing the
table in a div called table-responsive. This makes the table responsive so that
when it is viewed even on a very small screen, the table will
adjust appropriately. And then if the table needs extra space, then we'll be able to
horizontally scroll the table and look at the details of the table. Now, the table Itself, we use the table
HTML element to design the table. So here, I have table. For that, I have given
the class table table-striped. So this way,
we make it very clear to Bootstrap that we are using this
table as a real table. Now, you do realize that people
often use the table class for styling HTML pages themselves. So we want to be clear that this table is
actually being used as a table itself. So that's why we use the class table here,
to specify that this is a real table. And then the second qualification
that we are using is table-striped. So, the table-striped class will
lead to a table with alternate rows being in a different color so
that the table looks more clear. There are many different table
styling classes that are available within Bootstrap, so you should explore some of those to
understand how they are used better. Now, the table of contents themselves
are styled like a standard table that you might have created earlier. So there is no specific Bootstrap
classes that I am using for the table content itself. So here, you see there is a table row. And inside the table row, I have all
the table information, the table. These are the table headers here,
so I am using the th tag here so that these will be
displayed in bold in the table. So this particular row contains
all the heading information for the table, header row for the table. The next row contains information that is displayed on
the first table row below the header row. So that's why only for
the first column I am using the th. For the remaining columns,
I am using td to display the information. Like that, you can go through
the remaining rows of the table. And that is how we
include a table in a web page using the Bootstrap classes. Returning to the web page, the next component that I'm going
to add to this page is a panel. A panel allows you to display content
in the web page in a enclosed box here. So here, if I scroll up, I see that there is some empty space
on the right hand side in this row. I'm going to leverage that empty space,
and then put a panel in place there. Now, I want the panel to
occupy more number of columns. So I'm going to shrink the column for this particular part of
the content in this row so that this occupies only eight columns and then I'll be left with four columns
there to put a panel into place. So let me go to the code and
then add in the panel code. And then we'll come back and
look at the change to the web page. And then, we'll review the code. I have now added a panel to the web page. So as you can see on the right side, I have a panel which
displays some information. Now, the panel carries a panel
header here, and also some content. This content that I am displaying here, I am making use of the description list, the dl that is part of HTML. So that is what I am using to display
the information inside this panel. So let's go and review the code to understand
how this panel has been created. So coming to the code, you see that I have added a div class with
the panel in place there. And the panel classes that I am
using is panel and panel-primary. So that is the reason why the panel
itself is displayed in blue color, because I am using
panel-primary color there. Inside the panel,
you see that I have two divs here. The first div is a panel-heading, so that is what contains the heading
that I am using for the panel. So in here I define the panel-title
as an h3 class here, so that will be displayed
in the panel-heading. Down below here, I have the panel-body. So this is where the content of
the panel has been enclosed. Now, looking at the content here, you see
that I have a description list here, a dl. And the class that I am using for
this is dl-horizontal. What this means is that
in the description list, the term is displayed on the left side and
the actual description of the term is displayed on the right side
in the same horizontal line. So here, I have the first group here, so I have the dt that I am
using to specify started. Then I am using the dd to specify
what goes into the description. And similarly, repeating dt and dd here
for the second line there, and so on. So I have four of these enclosed
inside of this dl class here. So that is what creates the content of this panel that is being
displayed in the web page. Taking one final look at the panel,
you see that now, the panel head is being
displayed here on the top. And then the contents of the panel,
the dl, is being displayed inside the panel here. Panels can be used to highlight pieces
of information on your web page. So this is a very interesting
component that is useful for certain parts of our web page and design. The last component that I'm going
to add to this web page is a well. Now, I'm going to put a well here
in this row to display a quotation. Now, this quotation I am going to make use
of the blockquotethat is available for typography in Bootstrap to
style that particular well. Let me add in the code, and then we'll
come back to look at the web page itself. Coming back to the web page, now you can
see the use of a well on the web page. Inside the well,
now I have a quotation which I am using the blockquote typography
support in Bootstrap to style. So when I use a blockquote, the blockquote will put a vertical bar
to the left side of this quotation. And in addition,
I am using some additional features of the blockquote in order to
display the actual content here. Let's go and look at the code for
creating the well and the quotation here. Now coming back to the code here, the well is created by using a div for
which I am specifying the class as well. I can even specify the size
of the well as well followed by well-lg or well-sm for
large and small wells. Or, if I don't specify the size,
it'll be the default size well. In this example,
I am using a default size well here. Now, inside the well, I can enclose
whatever content that I wish to. So inside the well, I am using a
blockquote to enclose the quotation there. Now if I use a blockquote and
put some content inside the blockquote, what Bootstrap will do is to display
a vertical bar to the left hand side of the blockquote to highlight
that as a quotation on the screen. Now inside the blockquote, you see that I have a p element here
which encloses the actual quotation. And then in addition,
I am making use of the footer here. This footer inside a blockquote
allows me to specify the author, or
the person who said the quotation. So in this case,
this quotation was by Yogi Berra, which I found to be funny enough
to include in the web page. And also, I can use this cite tag to display the source
of this information. So here, I say cite and
then I say the title as source title. And then,
I specify the information inside there. So this will be displayed as
the source of this quotation. Coming back to the web page,
now you can see how this well and the quotation inside the well have
been created using the well class and the blockquote class in Bootstrap. So this completes this exercise. So in this exercise,
we have looked at the use of tables, panels, and wells in displaying
content on our web page. Now, you can make use of these components
at many other locations on your web page, depending on what you're
trying to display there. But, this is just one example to
illustrate how we can leverage these components to display
content on our web page.