Front-end web UI frameworks
are increasingly becoming the approach for designing and
implementing websites quickly. Let's examine some details of front-end
web UI frameworks in this lecture. We last covered service. What are front-end web UI frameworks? Then we'll look at why we would be
interested in using a front-end framework and finally a list of the popular
front-end web UI frameworks. What exactly do front-end web
UI frameworks provide for you? Now typically a front-end web UI framework
is a collection Of HTML, CSS, and Javascript templates that enable you to
quickly design and implement your website. So they will provide a collection
of components like Buttons, Tables, Navigation bars,
Modals, Accordions, Carousels and Dropdowns and
many other features. And also addressing Typography and
color schemes for your website. Why should we be interested using
front-end web UI frameworks? One of the primary reasons
is responsive web design. Now, we will examine responsive web design
in more detail in the next lecture. Here, let me quickly summarize
what we mean by this. We realize that people are accessing
websites using various different devices of different screen sizes. Now how do we target these different
screen sizes by using a single website design and make our website automatically
adapt to different screen sizes. So that is one of the primary issues
being addressed by responsive web design. In particular, we see an increasing
trend towards mobile first. Meaning that first, design your website
with the mobile screen size in mind, and then adapt to larger
screen sizes from there. We'll also look at mobile first design
in more detail in the next lecture. A second reason why you might be
interested in front-end frameworks, is that different browsers
have different quirks in them. So we need a way of commonly targeting
all the different browsers so that our website renders
uniformly independent of which browser a user
uses to access our website. Now addressing the quirks of different
browsers is not that straightforward. Fortunately for us, these frameworks have already taken
care of addressing these issues so that it becomes straightforward for
us to concentrate on our website design. And if we make use of the front-end
frameworks, they will automatically take care of the problems of addressing
the different browser issues. A third and equally important reason for using a front-end framework
is increased productivity. Now designing websites,
from the scratch, is quite cumbersome. Now, because these front-end
frameworks provide us with a lot of features and competence, it becomes more
straightforward to design our website with a consistent look and feel. Finally, let's not underestimate
the community support that a front-end framework enjoys. Now, the larger the community that
participates in a front-end framework, the larger the resources that we have
available to us that we can leverage to address issues that we might encounter
in using a front-end framework. You might find a lot of examples out
there, you might find people posting blog entries addressing various features. That is very very important when
you need to quickly get started implementing a website. Finally let's look at some of
the popular front-end frameworks. Now this is a small list. There are a large number of
front-end frameworks out there. I'm giving you the list of
the most popular among them. Now, again, I might have missed out
your favorite front-end web framework. Don't get too worked up about it. People have different opinions on this. Now this is one of the most
opinionated areas of website design. People tend to hang on to their
favorite web UI frameworks and insist that that is the best
way to address the problem. Again, we should all take this
with a big grain of salt. Maybe I should say a big rock
of salt after all, but anyway. Based upon looking at several
different plug entries, this is the list that I feel
comfortable with in presenting to you. One of the most popular of all
the front-end frameworks is of course Bootstrap. We'll look at Bootstrap in more
detail In the subsequent lectures. Foundation by Zurb is yet another popular
framework, has a pretty large following. Then we have Semantic UI which
is gaining a lot of ground. Pure by Yahoo, UI Kit, and many more. Now, when you look at these frameworks,
you will notice that they have a lot in common, and each one of these
frameworks have some unique features. Now, your choice of a framework is
dictated more by what you're trying to achieve than trying to stick to one
single framework for all your needs. Again, look at it as possibilities
that you have for you. Getting started with any one of these
frameworks is not that difficult once you have a quick introduction
to one of those frameworks. Many of them have common
features as a set. So it should not be very difficult to
switch from one framework to another if you'll find that a second one is
better suited for your purpose. So now we will go onto the next set
of lectures where we'll examine Bootstrap in more detail.