Strap on your boots and let's get started
with our first hands on exercise. Sorry, just couldn't resist that. Okay, let's get started
with the first exercise. Where we are going to learn how you would
set up a web project to use Bootstrap, how you would include Bootstrap CSS and
JavaScript classes into a webpage. And how to apply the Bootstrap classes
to various elements in the webpage, to design your webpage. First, go to your convenient
location on your computer. And create a folder named conFusion. Yes, that's right conFusion. That's the name of the website
that we're gonna create. So let's do that first. Once you create that folder,
let's move into that folder and then we'll download Bootstrap files. Next, go to the Bootstrap website,
www.getbootstrap.com, and then download the zip file containing the
Bootstrap CSS JavaScript and font classes. Then, move the zip file to the folder that
we just created, and then unzip the file. This will create a folder
named bootstrap-3.3.5-dtxt. Move into that folder and
move the three folders inside there into the conFusion folder. So let's select them and
then move them to the conFusion folder. Then move back to the conFusion folder and then now you can delete
the Bootstrap distribution files. Now our folder is setup with the Bootstrap
files, to get started on our web project. Next, download the index.html
file that we have provided for you and
then move it to the conFusion folder. Then, you can open the index.html
file in your favorite browser, and then have a look at the contents in there. I have already configured this
html file with some content, which we're going to style
using the Bootstrap classes. This project creates a website for
a fictitious restaurant named con Fusion. When you look at the current
state of the webpage, it is plain and simple,
with just the content. Looks like a typical computer
science professor's webpage. At the end of this module,
we're gonna take this webpage and then use Bootstrap classes to style it,
and turn this webpage into this webpage. You can see that the content has
been appropriately styled using various Bootstrap classes,
to make it a lot more attractive. And fun to look at. So let's get started styling
this webpage using Bootstrap. I'm going to be using Brackets as the
editor of choice for this set of courses. You are welcome to use any text id
term that you are familiar with for editing the files. On the screen, you already see that I have
opened the conFusion folder in Brackets, and opened the index.html file to
be displayed in the window there. Now, one reason why I
chose to use Brackets, is the availability of the live
preview facility in Brackets. If you go to the right side of the screen, you see this button,
which looks like a thunderbolt. When you click on that,
Brackets will automatically open that webpage in a browser. And whenever you make any changes to
that code, in the webpage in Brackets. It's automatically going to update
the webpage in the browser. This is an interesting feature
that makes it easy for us to see the changes
immediately in a browser. Now because of the restriction of
the screen, I am not able to show you both the browser and
of the Brackets window at the same time, simply because it won't be
very clear in the video. So I have my webpage open in my browser in
a separate window, which I'm gonna switch to occasionally to show you the changes
whenever we edit the file in Brackets. Let's go into the index.html file, and then paste this code in
the head of the html file. Now, this code sets up our
webpage to be responsive. Now, I'm going to explain the details of
this code in the next set of lessons. For the moment,
I want to put that code into place. So that our webpage begins being
responsive from the start. Next after the title in
the head of the webpage, I'm going to add in the lines to
import the Bootstrap CSS files. Finally at the bottom of the page,
just before the end of the body tag, I am going to add in the code
to import the jQuery library and Bootstraps JavaScript plugins. After we make these changes, let's go and have a look at our current
state of the webpage. Now when you switch to our webpage, you will already see that
the page has changed subtly. Their fonts that are being used in
the page to render content, has now been updated to use the Bootstraps default
fonts, which is Helvetica Neue. We are now going to add a container class
to enclose the content of our webpage. So switching back to the HTML of the page, we will now go into the content and
to the first div after the header, so you can see that in the body of our
webpage, we first have the header. I'm going to style the header
a little bit later. But, we'll move to the first
div inside the body and then apply the class container to this. After this change, let's go back and
have a look at our webpage. Switching back to our webpage,
you already see that the content of a webpage is
enclosed inside a container here. We'll still have the header and the footer as tied,
which we're going to do next. Once we upload the container class
to the content of the webpage. Inside the content, we are going to
divide the content into multiple rows. So to do that, for the first inner
div's that we're going to encounter inside the container, we will apply
the row class to each one of them. So let's go ahead and do that,
and then come back and have a look at the webpage again. We have a total of three rows
in the content of our webpage. Switching back to our webpage,
let's have a quick look at the change. You won't notice much
change in the webpage. The content has been
enclosed inside the rows, but we haven't applied any
other styling to the webpage. We will now move to the header, which is the first section
of the body of our webpage. So to the header, I am going to
apply the class of Jumbotron. And the first inner div
inside that header, I'm going to apply the class container. And the second inner div and
better apply the class row here. After these changes, let's go back and
have a look at our webpage. Switching back to our webpage. We now see that our header has
been styled using a Jumbotron. So, you can see the light grey
background applied to the Jumbotron. And you can also see how the content has
been rendered in the head of our webpage. You can already see the webpage
taking on a good shape. Finally, let's move to the footer of the
page, and then apply the container class to the first inner div and the row class
to the second inner div in the footer. After these changes,
let's have a look at our webpage. Now you can see that our
footer has also been brought into the center
part of our webpage. Having one complete look at the webpage
from the top to the bottom, you can see the Jumbotron at the top, then you see that the content has
been enclosed inside a container. And the footer content has also been
enclosed inside another container. This completes this exercise. So we have now understood, how to set up
our web project to use Bootstrap classes, and we have used some basic classes
from Bootstrap to style our webpage.