Let's now talk about Tooltips,
Popovers, and Models. These are three different ways
of showing content to the users. Earlier we had seen
the use of the collapse Plugin where we were able to show and
hide content on the webpage. But in those applications we had to have the content
already embedded in the webpage. Tooltips, popovers, and modals are the way
of overlaying content onto your webpage. In terms of flexibility,
tooltips are the simplest, but provide very little flexibility. Popovers provide more
flexibility than tooltips. Modals are, of course, a comprehensive way
of presenting information to the users. So we'll examine each of
these In more detail, next. To understand how tool tips work,
let's visit our web page. And, then when we hover onto
the reserve table button, you can see that a message
pops up on our web page. This is enabled using a tooltip. Tooltips are a simple way of presenting
some information to the users. A tooltip pops up whenever
the users hovers onto a button or a link to which the tooltip
has been added. To add a tooltip to an a tag or a button
tag you will add three attributes. The first one,
data toggle is equal to tooltip specifies that the tooltip has
been added to the bottom tag. The second attribute, the title gives the message string
that'll be shown inside the tooltip. The third attribute is data placement,
which is either top, bottom, left, or right. And this specifies which direction
the tooltip is going to pop up. For the tooltip to work correctly,
you will also need to include a small amount of JavaScript code
at the end of your page. Right after where you import the bootstrap JavaScript classes,
you will include the script shown here. This script specifies that for all those tags to which the data toggle
tooltip attribute has been added, the tooltip will be enabled. Looking at the example of how you
allow tooltip to a on a button tag. Here, I have ironed the tooltip to
the a tag, by adding the data-toggle. And the data placement and
the title to the a tag here. This is what causes the tooltip to be popped up when you have it on
to the button in our webpage. Popovers, are a generalization
of tooltips. Popovers allow you to present both a title
as well as the content in the popover. The title will be presented
in bold at the top, and the content will be included
at the bottom of the popover. Popovers have to be also enabled
explicitly by including the JavaScript code shown in there into our web page. So as an example this
is what a popover will look like when you click on the button. So in this case we have associated
the popover with this button here, by including the data toggle as popover. The title with the information over
displayed in the popovers title, and the data content carries the information
to be displayed in the content part of the popover. Now the popover also can take placement attribute which specifies which
side a popover should be shown. In this example the popover will be triggered when you click on the button,
unlike tooltips, which will automatically appear when
you hover onto the button or the link. The popover has to be triggered by
clicking on the button or the link. And next time when you
click again on the button of the link the popover will be hidden. So the popover will remain open until you
click again onto the button of the link. Modals are a more gentle way of
presenting information to the users. Modals allow you to define the information
to represented in a lot more detail. You can even format the information and specify the information in
the form of many HTML code. The models contain both a header,
body, and a footer. Typically, you will include most of the
information in the body of the message. The footer is usually
used to include buttons, maybe cancel or an action button, okay? The header usually carries some
information about the specific modal. Let's look at an example and then come
back and examine how we create a modal. Going back to our web page, all right? You can see that there is a log in
link on the right side of the Nav bar. When you click on it, a modal will pop up. So you see that I have designed
this modal to include their log in form that previously
existed in the nav bar. So I have moved the form
into this modal here. So here, in this modal,
we can see that there is a header and the body of the model contains the font. This particular example
doesn't have a footer. Now looking at the modal example, you see that the modal is
created by defining a div, and giving it an ID, and
the class to be given to the div is modal. If you want the modal to
fade in when the button or the a tag is clicked, then we give
the fade class also to the modal. Inside the modal, we'll have an inner
div with the modal dialogue class. In addition you can specify the size
of the modal as modal hyphen lg or modal hyphen sm. The default size would be invoked
if you do not specify the size. The modal also includes an inner div. The modal content. Now inside the modal content div you would
include the header, body and the footer. The header will be another div
with the class model header. The body will be a div with the class
model body and then, of course, the footer will be a div
with the class modal footer. Now, in this example,
we are going to include the form HTML code inside the modal body
of this particular modal. How do you trigger the modal? To do that, you need to include in
the information in either the a tag. A button tag. So to an A tag or a button tag you will
give the data toggle as a modal, and the data target will be the ID
of the modal to be specified. So in this example, the login modal's
ID is specified as the data target. So that's why when the link,
the login link on the and navbar is clicked,
the modal pops up onto the webpage. We'll now move on to the next exercise. While we're there we will
consider tooltips and modals. So we introduce a tooltip so that when
the user hovers onto to the reserve table button, the tooltip also pops up. In addition, we'll have the login
form enclosed inside a modal, and so when the user clicks on
the login button in the nav bar, the modal will pop up on the screen.