In our next exercise,
we're going to examine tool tips and modals and
how we can add these to our page. We're gonna go to the index.html
page that we have been designing so far on our website. And we're going to add a tooltip and we're
also going to add a modal to this webpage. You will also explore modals in
more detail in the assignment that follows at the end of this module. Going to our webpage. We see that in the index.html file,
we have this button here. I would like to introduce a tooltip for
the button so that when you hover on that button,
then a tooltip will pop up. In addition, we have a form in the navbar
which was used for signing in. I'm gooing to shift
that form into a modal. So that you only have a login button
there and when you click on that login, then that modal will pop up and
allow you to enter your username and password and then login to the website. To introduce a tooltip into
a website in the index.html file, they will navigate down to the jumbotron
which contains that button. For the button I'm going to
introduce a tooltip into the a tag which represents that button. Let me introduce the code and
then we'll come back and examine that code in a little more detail
and then see the result on the web page. Here you see that I
have already introduced the tooltip to the a tag in the jumbotron. So to introduce a tooltip I have
introduced a data-toggle, the tooltip, and also, given in the title attribute, I have given the information that should
be displayed in the tooltip there. To activate tooltip,
you remember that we have to add appropriate JavaScript
code to the page. So let's go to the bottom of the webpage
and then add the correct JavaScript code. I have now added the code,
the JavaScript code, in order to activate the tooltip here. So in this JavaScript code you see
that when the document is ready. And for this data-toggle="tooltip", wherever you have this
included as an attribute for the element and will activate the tooltip. So after making these changes, let's save
the changes and then we'll go back and look at the web page. Coming to the web page,
you now see that when you put your cursor on the button,
the tooltip pops up at the bottom here. Showing the message that we included in
the title attribute of the button there. The button still works
as a regular button, so when you click on it you can still go
to the form at the bottom of the page. But the tooltip also is displayed when
you just hover over that button there. Our next step is to introduce the modal,
so that we can shift the login
form into their modal. So to do that I go right up to the top and right after the nav element there,
the navbar there. I introduce the code for the modal
as specified on the workshop site, normally when you are using modals it is
always better to include the modal code at the top of the page. So that subsequent changes in the web page will not affect the modal
behavior in any way. So let me introduce the code for the modal
there, and then we'll come back and examine what we have done. Now, I have introduced the code for
setting up the modal into place there. So you can see that I have an outer div,
which I have given an id as the loginModal and the corresponding class as
modal with the fade class also. Meaning that when the modal
is dismissed it will fade. And when the modal is invoked,
it will fade in. And inside the modal I have the class
called as the model-dialog class. And then inside the modal-dialog
class I have the modal-content here. So in the modal-content we will have
the modal-header, body and also footer. For this particular modal
I am not using a footer so I only have the modal-header and the body. In the modal-header I am introducing a button for the closing of the modal. So you have a cross button there, so
we have seen such button being introduced even for the alert class earlier, so
the same kind we are using here and then the modal-title is introduced there. So that completes the modal-header. Now the modal-body will contain
the actual body of this modal. Now currently it is empty. Now remember that I had
a navbar form that I used earlier to enable the users to
type in their login information. So I'm going to go into the navbar and
then cut out that form and then paste it into this location and
then edit that form a little bit. So to do that let's scroll
back to that navbar there, and then we have the form element there,
so I am just going to cut the entire
form element from there and then paste it into the modal there. So cutting out that element from there. We no longer need it there. So I'm going to take that and
then paste it into the modal body here. The form can be retained as such because
that is exactly what we want the form to perform. But now the form is no
longer a navbar form, so I need to change the class to form-inline,
so that their elements are displayed
in line inside that modal there. In addition, in the form right
after the sign in button, I will also introduce
a cancel button there. So if the user doesn't want to log in
they can press the cancel button and then dismiss the form. So, let me introduce the code and then we'll have a quick
look at that code there. You can now see that I have introduced
an additional button there of the class button type and button default. And the corresponding attribute there
also says data-dismiss="modal", meaning that when this button is
clicked the modal will be dismissed. After making these changes we now
need a way of invoking the modal. So we have to introduce
another link into our navbar, which when clicked
will invoke the modal. So to do that I go back to the navbar
there and right after the ul data, I will introduce another
nav element there. Which will contain a list item which
when clicked will invoke the modal. I have now introduced another nav element. So here you see that I am using the ul
tag with the class nav, navbar, nav. But in addition, I am saying using
the class navbar-right, meaning that whatever content in this ul will be
pushed to the right side of the navbar. So inside this navbar
I have one list item. This list item is the one
that is going to be used to invoke the modal. So in here I am using the a tag
with a data-toggle modal and the data-target as loginModal. Remember that I have used loginModal as
the ID for the modal that I introduced earlier, so this is the same thing
specified as the data target here. Now inside here of course
I have the login and then a glyphicon that I use
to indicate the login there. So with these changes,
let's save the file, and then go back and
look at the changes on our webpage. Coming back to our webpage,
in the index.html file, we saw that the tooltip already works when
we hover onto the Reserve Table button. Now, you also see that there is
a Login in the navbar there, so let's click on the login link. And when you click on the Login
link you now see that the modal is shown here at
the top of the page here. So inside this modal is you can see that
the login information can be typed in and then you have the Sign In button. If you click on the Cancel button
of course the Login is dismissed. Similarly if you click on this cross,
also the Login is dismissed. And again, walking the modal if you type
in the email and password and click on the Sign In button, then the sign in
operation should be invoked at that point. Currently of course,
the form is not active because we don't have a server in place to validate the user's
identity at the moment. This completes this exercise where
we explored tool tips and modals.