Many a times, you may wish to draw
the attention of visitors to your website, to certain parts of your website. Or maybe you may want to
deliver a message to users. This is where the radius, available mechanisms to deliver alerts to users,
becomes very, very valuable. So in this lecture we will examine
bootstrapped support for alerting users. We have labels, we have badges,
we have alerts and progress bars. For simple updates to users labels and
badges may be more than sufficient. They just display a small piece of
information within the website. Say, for example,
display the number of unread e-mails. Or maybe an item that is new or
updated at this moment. These kind of things can easily be
delivered using labels and badges. Alerts or error or warning messages
can easily be delivered to users by highlighting the messages on the website
by surrounding it with appropriate background so
that it's clearly visible to the users. Progress bars are a way of indicating
progress of any activity that is going on on your website, like uploading or
downloading a file for example. Here is an example of the use of
labels and badges on your website. Now, to use a label in bootstrap
we will use the span tag and then apply the class label and
depending on the color that you want your label to be, you would
use label primary info danger and so on. And you can also specify
the size of the label. Similarly, badges also use this span tag with the class badge
applied to the span tag. So as we have already seen Labels. Use the class's label and label-color of the label that you want to use,
and also the size. Badges are fairly straightforward. There's a single class called badge
that you apply to the span tag, and then whatever is the contents inside the
span tags will be displayed as a badge. The badge will automatically
adapt to where it is displayed. So for example if the item for which it
is included is with a darker background, the badge will be displayed in lighter
color to match the other lettering within within the parent tech. Badges are interesting in the sense that
if there is no content within the badge, the badge just will
automatically collapse. So that it won't be visible on the screen. So that's one easy way of
using badges on your website. Alerts are another way of
delivering messages to the user. An alert will be displayed at the location
indicated within the webpage. That alert will be
surrounded by a bounding box with a background color that is
determined by the specification. So in this example,
you see me saying alert warning. So that's why the background
color is yellow in color. In addition, within this alert,
I am including the icon the cross icon there which when
clicked will dismiss the alert. To make this work, of course,
I need to include an icon for that I am using the button tag. And inside the button tag I
am applying the close class. And also the class is
displayed by using the times icon from HTML and for the alert itself, I need to apply the alert+dismissible
class for this to work correctly. We can also include links within the
messages that we displayed in the alerts, so in this example you see me using
a link being displayed in the alert. So the links are actionable which means
that the user can click on the link to perform the appropriate
link action there. As you saw in the example,
the alert class is applied to the div. And inside there you can specify
colors and also include links and make the alert dismissible by including
the cross button in the alert. For the dismissible action to work
you need the JavaScript plug-in to be installed within your webpage. Finally, we have progress bars. Progress bars as I mentioned is
a way of indicating progress of any action that is going on on a website. See, uploading a file or
playing some music, whatever mechanism that you want to
indicate the progress of the action would be well shown on the webpage,
using a progress bar. To use a progress bar,
you would use <div class="progress">. And inside the div, you will have an inner div to which
you will apply the progress bar class. The progress bar can
also takes on the color representation using one of
the standard colors there. So that's why in this example you
see me using progress bar danger. You can also make the progress bar
striped so you can apply the class progress-bar-striped to make a striped
class, if you don't apply that, it'll be a solid color. The width of the progress
bar is indicated by specifying the style for the progress bar. So in this case I'm specifying
style="width:80%" so, that's why in the progress bar,
80% is covered. We can also include a text that can be directly displayed
inside the progress bar. Now whatever we include in the span
with the class sr-only Is meant for screen readers. So if screen readers are being used, then that information will
be read out to the user. We can also include the text directly
in the progress bar, as you see, using the 80% right in the example there. So, to use progress bars, we apply
the progress class to an outer div and then inside that we'll have
an inner div that's a progress bar. Now within the outer progress div you can
have multiple progress bars, if you want. If you do include multiple progress bars,
then they will be stacked so you can create stacked
progress bars if required. And for a progress bar you
can define the color and also whether it is striped or not. You can even activate
the animation of the striped display by using the active class for
the progress bar. This completes our discussion on
various ways of alerting users. We'll now move on to a short exercise,
where we will look at the use of both labels and
badges on our website.