Building websites involves
a lot of tedious work. Even with the simple website
that we have been building so far, you realized that you had
to do a lot of work manually. For example, we had to go and
fetch Bootstrap and all the files related to Bootstrap by going to the website and
then downloading all the stuff from there. Then we had to go and fetch and many other assets that we require for
building of our website. Now, if we need to
repetitively do these things, it becomes extremely cumbersome
after a period of time. This is where if we have automation
tools that can help us to quickly accomplish these tasks with a few
commands it would be really beneficial. The note came onto the scene,
bringing together the JavaScript run time. The web developers suddenly realized that
they could easily use the JavaScript skills that they already possess to write
a whole bunch of tools that help to automate a lot of the tasks that
they do day in and day out. This is spawned a rich
set of tools that have become widely adopted by
the web development community. Now we are going to review
a few of these wonderful tools. To help us to manage our
own web development. As I mentioned, there are a lot of
tools for doing the development. We can do review a few of them
that will prove very essential as you go through the remaining
courses of this specialization. We will learn these tools just in time and
then start immediately applying them for helping us to progress in the courses. First we will learn about Bower,
which is a package manager for the Web. Then, in the next course,
we will learn about Grunt and Gulp, which are what we
call task automation tools. Then we'll look at Yo,
which is a web app scaffolding tool. Now, all these tools have been brought
together under this umbrella called Yeoman, which is a workflow that is
designed around and using these tools. We are going to learn more about
Yeoman in the next course, but at this moment we are just going
to learn specifically about power which is one of the components
in this tool set. Now if you have been doing programming
using one of the integrated development like Visual Studio, Reclipse,
and so on you see that there is a lot of integration of tools that help
you to get your web accomplished. In the web world, we don't have a single
integrated development environment. The web developers generally prefer
to use a lot of command line tools. So the tools that you're going to
encounter Power, Grunt, Gulp, and Yo, and Yeoman, are all command line tools
that we gonna execute using a terminal. And all these are built in JavaScript,
and they are run using note. Right now, we are going to
explore Bower in more detail. Bower, as I mentioned,
is a package manager for the web. Now what does this mean? When you build a website,
we realize that we need to fetch a lot of packages that we need
in building our tool. As an example, when we were building
our website through the exercises. We saw that we went to
the Bootstrap website and fetched the Bootstrap files. Then we ventured to
Font Awesome website and fetched all the Font Awesome files and
so on. So, we had to manually
do all these things. Now, Bower automates the search for
all these web packages, as you will see when we go
through the exercise next. Bower helps us to automatically
fetch all these components. Not only that, we will notice that if
we need to reinstall the components, or update this components,
Bower comes to our rescue, okay? Now, Bower is one of the tools
in the whole tool set which forms part of our workflow. So as we go through,
we will learn the remaining tools and then imply them to get our work done. The best way to learn more about
Bower is actually to use it. In the process we will learn all
the commands that we need to understand to employ Bower to get our work done. So in the next exercise we're gonna make
use of Bower to automatically go and fetch for us Bootstrap, Font Awesome from the available packages, web packages. And then we'll make use of
them in building our website.