Today imagining a website without any
images and media is very hard to do. But when you think back about when
websites were first designed, they were purely content, text content. But of course today you can't envision
a YouTube without the videos or a Pinterest without the images. So, images and media add enormous
value to web sites these days. You were expecting me to say that,
weren't you? Well, not quite. This is what I was planning to say. A picture is worth $12 on iStockPhoto.com. Okay, enough with those corny jokes. Let's move on to talking about images and
media and how to include them on websites. Paying a quick visit to your
course website yourself, you can now begin to look for images and media
that are already included in this website. Now, you can easily see that we have
a logo up there, which obviously didn't get there without an image being
included into the website design. And obviously you see those pictures
there, images all over again. Go into your course content and
there you have, video on your website. So, anywhere you turn you
can't run away from images and media and their use on websites. Let's now talk in particular about
Bootstraps classes to support images. Now when you include
images on your website, you would of course use the img tag there. Now inside the img tag you will
supply the source as an attribute. The class that you can use for images using Bootstrap classes to
make the images responsive, you would specify them as img-responsive. This way your image will
automatically adapt as the website is viewed on different screens. The image will automatically adapt itself
to the size of the parent element, and appropriately,
will display on the screen. Now, you can also use
additional classes to control the shape in which the image is
being displayed on the screen. You can use image rounded circle and
thumbnail. Rounded will put rounded
corners to your image, circle will obviously display
your image inside a circle. And thumbnail would add
some borders to your image. I wonder who that is? In the example, you can see me using
image rounded, image circle and image thumbnail on the image
being displayed there. This is the result of using
the image classes in Bootstrap. Another interesting class in
Bootstrap is the thumbnail class. In a thumbnail class,
as you can see from the code there, you would surround the content In
a div with the class thumbnail. Now inside the thumbnail,
you will specify your image, and in addition to the image, you can
also specify a caption for the image. If you don't include the caption, then it'll be displayed like
a thumbnail on this grid. Now the thumbnail class is very useful for creating a gallery of
images on your webpage. If you want to you can also include
additional caption to your image. In this example,
you see me using the caption to include some additional information
together with the image there. Another class that you can use
to display images in media, is the media-object class. To use the media-object class you would
enclose everything inside a media div. And inside the media div you
would have two inner divs. One with the media-left or
the media-right option. And the second one with the media-body. Now, the display of the content will be
as shown in the example to the right. The image will be displayed as
a thumbnail or whichever way you choose to on the left side, and on the right side
the actual content will be displayed. The media-object class is
very useful to construct a list of items together with
a thumbnail on the left. You have seen the usage of these on
many different places on websites. For example,
if you want to display a list of comments, you could include also
the image of the commenters. If you have a list of items
being displayed for example, on a mobile device, you would often see that
there is a thumbnail along the left, and some description on the right in the list
of items being displayed on the screen. All of these will benefit
from the media-object class. So exploring further, the media-object
class includes the media class, which you apply to the outermost div. The media-object class,
which you apply to the inner div. The media-body class. Then the media-heading class. The media-heading class is
applied to the heading that is displayed inside the media-body. Now, positioning of the image
is controlled by using the media-left and
the media-right classes. The media-right div, if you are using, should always be
placed after the media-body div. Media-left div as you saw in the example,
is placed before the media-body div. The media objects can also
be included inside lists, by using a ul media-list
class being applied to it. So, this would be one way that you
can display a list of comments on your website. You can also use another class
called a responsive embed for embedding content on your websites. We have seen when you embed content,
like videos on your website, you would use tags like embed or
iframe or video tags there. Now, any one of these can be embellished
using the Bootstraps embed-responsive tag. And then together with
embed-responsive-16by9, or embed-responsive-4by3, to specify the size of the embedded
object being displayed. The embedded object itself carries
the embed responsive item class there. So, embedding media content on your
webpage and making it responsive, means that you apply
the embed-responsive-item class to either the embed iframe,
video, or object tags. You enclose that inside a div. And for the div, you apply the
embed-responsive and embed-responsive-4by3 or embed-responsive-16by9
to the embed div itself. We'll now move to our next exercise,
which examines images and media. So in this exercise, we're going to use the Bootstrap classes
to embed a sponsored image on our website. We'll also use the media-object class
to include images on description on our website.