Okay, next exercise. We're going to examine images in media,
and how we can include them into our webpages. First step, download the image dubbed
zip file that we have provided for you. Move the zip file to the confusion folder,
unzip it. You'll be left with a folder named
img in the confusion folder. This img folder contains all the images that we're gonna
make use of in this exercise. Next, let's open our
project in brackets and then have a look at the current
state of the webpage. In particular,
we'll be updating the index for our HTML page by adding some images and
media objects into this pitch. So looking at the current state of the
webpage, you'll see that there is hardly any images on this webpage,
and it looks fairly bland. Well of course we had to wait until
we learned about images in media before we could add these to our webpage. So in this exercise we
are going to add images and media to make the webpage a little
more exciting to look at. As our first step in adding
images to this webpage, we are going to add the restaurant's
logo to this webpage. Now you see that there is some space to
the right hand side in this jumbotron. We are going to the put the restaurant's
logo in that location in the jumbotron. In addition, you recall that in
the nav bar we had used the brand, link there, and we'll use just text there
to represent the name of the restaurant. We're gonna replace that with
the logo of this restaurant. Going to our index.html page,
we first scroll down to the jumbotron. In the jumbotron,
I'm going to replace the second column that we have there
by the restaurant's logo. So we're going to use an image for the
restaurant's logo and then replace that div class, or
include the image into the div class. And then update the div
class appropriately. So let's do that. And then we'll come back and
examine the code. So here I have replaced the div class. Now, I have reduced the size of
the div class to two column widths. So I updated column sm to column sm 2
rather than column sm 4 which was earlier. Now I'm going to use
the remaining two columns for some other purpose in the assignment,
so we're gonna leave that as such. Inside this div, now you see that I have included
the image of the restaurant's logo there. So I'm using image, and the class that I'm
using for this image is img-responsive. What this means is that this
image will automatically adapt to the size of the containing parent
element which is the div class. So, as the div class's size
changes from different screen widths, the restaurant logo
image will automatically adapt. This is part of Bootstrap's class
support for sponsored images. While we are at it,
we will as well update the navbar. In the navbar you'll see that we have
the a tag with the navbar brand class. We're going to replace that
navbar brand inside of the text. We're gonna replace it with
the image of our restaurant's logo. And then I will size
the image appropriately, so that it can be nicely
placed in the navbar. After updating the code inside the a tag,
you can now see that I have replaced the text with an image which
is the logo of our restaurant. I am using the height and width attributes
of this image to control the size of the logo that is
displayed in the nav bar. After making these changes, let's go and have a look at
the current state of our webpage. Going back to our webpage, you can now see that the restaurant's
logo is included in the jumbotron. In addition,
in the nav bar you can see that the restaurant's name has been replaced
with the logo of the restaurant. Now if you click on the logo, you're
going to be taken back to the home page. Go ahead and apply the same changes
to both the jumbotron and the navbar. In contactus.html file and
also the aboutus.html file. Remember that all these
should have uniform design of the jumbotron and the navbar. So, go ahead and make those changes
to the remaining two HTML files also. And then we'll go to the next step. After updating the remaining
two HTML pages, you will see that when you navigate to those pages,
you will see the logo in the navbar. And also in the jumbotron. Our next step is to use
the media object class in Bootstrap to update the descriptions that we have in the rows
of our index.html page. So now you see that in the first row we
have the description of our dish there, and in the third row we have
information about our master chef. So we're going to use the media
object classes to update these two to include both images as
well as the content as such. I'm not going to update
the content in the second row. That will be left as an exercise for
you in the second assignment. Getting back to the index.html page,
we are now going to replace this description that we have for
our dish there with a media object. I am going to include an image that we
already provide for you in the img folder. And also, update the remaining
contents there to make use of the media object to
display the description. You can now see that I have
used the media class applied to a div and inside of the div,
I am using the media left and the media middle class
applied to an inner div. Which includes the images of the dish. Also, the description itself,
what was earlier in the div, now I have moved into a media-body div
in there, the description as it exists. The h2 tag that is showing
the name of the dish. I am using the media heading class for
the h2 tag there. Also, while I'm at it,
I also updated the a class that contains the mode link there,
to turn it into a button. Moving to the third rule that contains
the information about our executive chef. I have also updated
the using the media object. So I am including an image of the chef. And also shifted the description
into the media body class in there. Finally in the second row, I am just updating the mole link
there to turn it into a button. With this we complete all
the updates to the index.html page. Let's save it and then go and have a look at the final
version of the index.html page. Returning to our webpage,
you will now see that in the webpage the description of our dish has
been replaced by a media object. You can notice that we
have included an image. I'm using the image to the image there and then the description on
the right-hand side. Notice how the More link has been
updated into a button there. In the second row also,
you see there are more data to a button. And in the last row, again,
you see the description of the Executive Chef updated, with
a picture of the Executive Chef in place. This completes this exercise. In this exercise we used the image classes and the media object
class available within Bootstrap to include images onto our web page.