We will now talk about the use of tabs,
pills and tabbed navigation to enable
presentation of content to the user. Obviously on any website there is a lot of
content that can be presented to the user. But if we organize it in a way that
is easy to navigate the content, then the visitors may find it more easy
to find the information that they want. So, tabs and pills allow us to
organize the content appropriately. Now, tabs and pills provide
the navigational elements for us. And then the content itself
is enclosed in tabbed pills, as we will see when we
go through this lesson. Let's take a look at a simple
example of how we can use tabs and tabbed navigation to organize content. So in this case we are looking at the
information about the corporate leadership of our restaurant. Now the content which was listed all
together has been organized into tabs indexed by the name of
the corresponding leader here. So using the tabbed navigation
we can easily move between the various descriptions of
the different leaders using the tabbed navigation provided for
us there. This enables the visitors not to be
overwhelmed with a lot of content but instead see the content presented
in an organized manner. So as we see, the tab and pills provide
us with the navigation elements to be able to navigate the content that
is already organized into multiple panes. Let's now look at a simple example to
understand how we go about implementing tabbed navigation on our page. To implement tabbed navigation we're gonna
use a UL with the classes nav nav-tabs. So this is a nav element, as we see. So that's why we use the nav class. And then the other qualifier
is the nav-tabs class there. Now within that,
each list item will be presented as a tab. So you can see in this code here
the different list items presented are laid out on the screen as
tabs seeing the example above. Each of these tab elements carries a a tag with an href which we can
use to defer to the tab pane that we're going to include next
with the actual content of the tab. Also, one of the list items
will be marked as active. This means that that particular
tab will be opened by default when the user navigates to this
location on the page. Instead of using the nav tabs class,
we can use the nav pills class. The nav pills class turns the navigational
elements into a list of items and the item marked as active will be clearly highlighted on the page there. So you can see that since I applied
the active class to the first element, the corresponding a tag has been clearly marked out as
a pill on the script. But both nav tabs and nav pills provide
exactly the same functionality. Depending on how you want to design your
user interface, you may choose one or the other as the approach for
designing your navigational elements. To the navigational elements,
we can also apply the nav-justified class. When you do that the nav
elements will stretch the entire width of
the parent element there and will occupy a proportional portion of the screen width for these nav elements. Now elements within the nav
class can be disabled by using the disabled class applied
to that particular element. Pills, in addition, provide you with a way of stacking them
vertically rather than horizontally. Nav tabs are always presented
in a horizontal arrangement. Nav-pills, on the other hand,
can be either presented horizontally, or if you use the nav-stacked
class together with nav-pills then the items will be stacked
vertically on the screen. We will see the use of nav
pills in the next lesson. The actual content that forms the part of the tab will
be enclosed inside a tab pane. So you will have a div with
the class tab-pane and inside that the content will be presented. Now these tab panes are grouped
together inside an outer div with the class tab-content. And one of those tab panes will be
designated as the active tab pane, which means that the content from that
tab pane will be visible on the screen when you first reach that tab item there. Going back to our example
that we presented earlier, let's look at the actual code used for
constructing those nav tabs. So here I present the UL class that
enables me to construct the nav tabs. And also the tab content itself is
enclosed inside a tab pane there, and these tab panes are enclosed inside
an outer div with the class tab-content. One more point to note is that
we need to connect the tabbed navigational elements to the content page. To do that for each of the tabbed
panes we will give an ID, and the same ID will be used in
the list item in the UL class to refer to this particular tab there. So in this example you can see that I have
used the IDS Peter for this tab pane, and there comes warning list item in
the UL class uses the href to Peter there. In addition, for the tabbed navigation
elements to work correctly, they should be given the data attribute
data toggle equal to tab there. Now we will move on to our next
exercise where we will actually construct the tabs example
that you saw earlier. So we're going to go into
the aboutus.html page, we're gonna use tabbed navigation to build
the tab navigational elements there, and then we're gonna organize
the content inside tabbed panes, and enclose that with a tab content div there.