Let's now talk about Bootstrap's buttons. In particular, the various classes
that Bootstrap provides for you to include buttons in your website,
and also to style the buttons
in various forms. The default Bootstrap setup is
configured with five different colors, and these colors can be
specified within Bootstrap or attached as qualifiers for
previous classes in the form of primary, success,
info, warning and danger. There five corresponding colors
in the default Bootstrap set up. Is darker blue for primary, green for
success, light blue for info, an orange color,
somewhat of an orange yellow color for warning, and red color for danger. These five colors, identifications, can be used together with many
of the Bootstrap classes. So, for example,
if we want to set a text to light blue in color they can say text
info or you can say text primaries. You can say button success for
a green colored button, similarly, alert danger for red colored and
text to be displayed. Similarly, background info for a blue colored background to
be created for an element. So, this standard five color combinations can be used together with many
classes to specify colors for those elements in Bootstrap. Bootstrap provides various
button classes that allow you to style your
buttons in various ways. Now, these button classes can be applied
to the <a> tags, to the <button> tag, as well to the <input> tags
that you use on your web site. All these can be styled
using the button class. So, all of them when you apply
the Bootstrap button classes, will take the form of a button,
they all look like a button on the screen. But, in particular only button
tags can be used inside navs and navbars if you want to include
a button in the nav or navbar. Let's take a look at some example buttons
and how they are defined in code. So, looking at the example that
we have on the screen here. You can see that I have defined
five different kinds of buttons, the large button that you see there
has been styled using button, button primary, button LG class. And, similarly the default,
the small success button, the extra small buttons, and even links. The two buttons on the right side here they use the button class
called button block. This essentially makes those buttons span the entire payment block within
which this button is contained. So, in this case, the two buttons
are spanning an entire column. So, they are spanning three columns
in that particular row there. To summarize, Bootstraps button
classes application can be done by selecting one from each
of these four choices here. So, if you need to apply the button class
to any A or Button R, the input element. You would specify the class as BTN. Then followed by one of the color choices
that we have there button default, button success, button info and so on. Then you can also specify
the size of the button. So, you can say button large,
button small, button xs. And of course that if you
don't specify a size, the default button size will be used. And you can also make the button occupy the entire block by
using the btn-block class. Bootstrap also allows you to
group buttons into button groups. So, when you group a set of
buttons into button groups, these buttons are displayed
together as a single unit. So, in the picture what you see here, we have three different kinds
of button groups being used. The left two button groups
are enclosed inside a button toolbar. So, you enclose button groups
inside a button toolbar. So, how do we apply the button classes for
applying the button group? You use btn-group class,
then you can specify the size, also, as btn-group -smlgr excess,
if you would like to specify. You can also specify the orientation for
the patterns as vertical. Normally, the buttons will be done in
a horizontal manner if you include them in a button group. But, you can specify that the button
group is button group vertical so the buttons are going to be laid
out stacked one upon the other. As you see in the example
on the right side. So, you have the three buttons in for
warning and danger buttons stacked
one on top of the other. And the corresponding code for causing
this is shown right there in the slide. Finally, summarizing, for buttons we
have the button class, BTN class, then you have the colors, then you have
the sizes that can be used in combination. Buttons can be grouped using button
toolbar, button group, button group vertical button group justified meaning
that the buttons will stretch to occupy the entire space that they are allowed
to occupy based upon appearance size. So, if they are included in a column then
they stretch to occupy the entire color. And of course you have the button group
with the size being specified large, small, and extra small.