Let us now talk about
Bootstrap support for forms. In particular, the various classes that Bootstrap
provides in order to style the forms. We have seen forms already in a lot
of detail, in the previous course. So in this lecture,
I will primarily deal with Bootstrap's own classes that are available
to style the forms. Forms in Bootstrap are created
using the form tags. So all the elements of the form
are enclosed inside the form tags. If we do not specify any class for
the form, then the standard layout for the form is used. We can specify the form
class as form-horizontal. And if we do that,
then we can have the labels to be displayed to the left
side of the data entry fields. So as you see in this particular example,
when you specify a label together with
the data entry element, then we would use a form-group
to enclose these two. So in here, I am specifying
the label as the first name there, which is shown in the form
on the left hand side. To the right of it in
the same horizontal line, the actual field for
entering the data is shown. Now by default within Bootstrap, the form group supports the row class. So inside the form group,
you can use the column classes in order to style the elements
inside the form group. So here, you see me using the column
class for both the label as well as for the input element there. We can also define inline forms. Inline forms are shown
completely in a single line. So this could be very useful, for example, if you want to include in
your navbar a method for the user to type in their username and
password and log in to your website. So inline forms use the class form-inline,
and inside there you can
specify the form groups. In particular, in this example,
you see that for the label tag, I am specifying the class as sr-only, meaning that those labels
are valid only for screen readers. Now for a normal visual display,
those labels will be hidden. Instead, we are using the placeholder
inside the form element itself to identify what the user is supposed
to type into that field in the form. Another class that Bootstrap supports
is called as an input-group. An input-group allows you to
group together a set of elements. Now, for any data entry field
that you have within your form, you can also have an input-group-addon, so that you can add elements to the left and
right side of your group. So in this example,
you see me including the left and right parenthesis to the field where I
allow the user to type in an area code. Say, for example, a telephone number. So in here, I am attaching using the
input-group-addon the left parentheses, and the input-group-addon the right
parentheses for this group. So these group addons,
I am taking the help of a div to put them together with my field there. Now, we'll move on to the next exercise, where we'll continue to
work on our website. We're gonna add buttons to the web site,
and also use various form
elements in order to create a user feedback form for our restaurant.