In this exercise, we're gonna learn
more about buttons and forms. We're going to learn how to
add buttons to your website, how to style them using the button
classes that are available in. We'll also learn about and
how we create and style the elements. Using classes. To get started download the contactus.html
file that we have provided for you and
then move it to the Con Fusion folder. Now this file we are going to
integrate it into our website. So when you open the webpage in a browser, this is what it is going to look like,
in the browser. So you can see that on the webpage we have the web page already partially
styled by us, with some information. Now within this web page,
you're going to add some buttons, and also add in a form for
the user to submit feedback to their restaurant. Before we get started adding forms and buttons, let's first integrate
this web page into our website. So this means that we have to go into
the nav bar and then set up all the links correctly in the nav bar,
not only for contactus.html page, but also the previous two pages,
index.html and aboutus.html. So you all know how to do this, so go and
edit the nav bars on these three pages. And update the links there, so
that you can move from any page to any other page by just clicking
the links on the nav bars. In addition, while you are at it,
add two new glyphicons, and icon to the Nav bar. One for the Menu item and
one for the Contact Us item. So we'll be using a glyph icon for
the Menu item and will use another Font Awesome icon for
the contact link in our nav bar. So as specified in the instructions, let's update these nav bars and
come back and look at the result. Taking a look at the contactus.html page, let me quickly review how I added
the two icons into the navbar. For the menu item, you can see that I am using
a glyphicon-list-alt for the menu item. And for the contact item,
I am using a Font Awesome, Font Awesome envelope icon for
the contact links there. Our next step is to add a button
bar to the contactus.html page. Now when you go into the page,
you will see that we have identified the location where the button
group is going to be added. So go into that location and
then we'll replace this line there with the code for
the button groups. After replacing the code, let's quickly
review what this new code does here. So you can see that in this new code, I have defined a div with
a class called btn-group. So this contains a group of buttons. I have three buttons in here, and I am
using the a tag to define the button so I am saying a type button, and for the class I am using button button
primary for one of the buttons. This button is a button to make
a phone call to the restaurant. So, that's why for the H graph I am
specifying it as it telephone and the phone number of the restaurant. The second button is for Skype. So I have included,
again, Skype button here, and also included a Font Awesome icon for
Skype there. The third button is for sending emails. So I have updated the A tag, with
the btn btn-success, and then the href, I am setting it to the mail
ID of the restaurant. Of course,
remember that this is a fake mail ID, so don't try to send mail to that ID. And also,
I added an envelope icon to the email. So after making this changes,
let's go and review our webpage. Returning to our webpage,
you would notice that now the, Nav bar has been updated with icons for
all the links in the nav bar. Second point to note is
the addition of the three buttons, in a button bar,
to the contents of the website. So now you can see that I have three
buttons here, call, Skype, and email. Now, this blue outline here is
because I am using brackets. So whenever I am editing
any code in brackets, you will see the blue line appear there. So let me just turn that off so
that's it's more clear to you. So let's take a look at the button bar. So you can see that in the button
bar now I have three buttons here. The Call button, the Skype button,
and the Email button. So if we click on any one of these then
the appropriate function will be started. In our next set of step,
we're going to add the form element to the contactus.html webpage. So here where it says form goes here,
I'm going to create a feedback form that the visitors can used to
send feedback to the restaurant. Of course at the end of this exercise this
form will not work at the moment because we don't have the server side setup to
receive the information from the form, but in the later courses
they will activate this form to be able to submit
information to the restaurant. Returning to our web page. In brackets, I'm going to
replace this form goes here with a set of code in order
to create a simple form. I have now substituted
the form code in place. In the HTML code let's quickly review
the new code that we have added, so you can see that I have
added a form tag here, and with a class horizontal, which means that
there are items in this form will be layed out in the horizontal manner, so we have
already seen the form horizontal class for our bootstrap,
when we debuted forms in bootstrap. Inside that form class,
I have two form-groups here. The first form-group is used to
create the entry for the first name. The second form group is to create
the entry point for the last name here. So after making these changes let's go and
look at the result. So you can now notice that on
the webpage we now have two fields that have been created for entering the
first name and the last name of the users. Pertaining to the HTML code, let me just
remind you again that the form group class automatically adds
the row features to that diff. So inside that, whatever contents we have, we can now apply column
classes to that content. So that's why you see me applying
col-sm-2 to the label and col-sm-10 to the div in here. So this is a nested set of columns for
this row. This is nested inside another column
which is in the webpage itself. Our next iteration to the HTML code for
the farm is to create the input group for
entering the telephone number. Now when I clear the info group for
the telephone number. You would see that I'm
using the form group. Now, inside the form group I'm using
an input-group here in the code. This input-group contains an input group add on which allows me
to add the left parentheses, and another input group add on that
allows me to add the right parenthesis to that particular input element there. So this input element I am using it to
allow the user to enter the area code. So if you're familiar with the US
phone number representations you will see that the area code is
always enclosed inside parentheses. So this allows me to add add ons to the input elements there. Now in addition I have
added in one more field for allowing the user to enter their email. So if this is the email ID field here,
the label, and the input there. So after making these changes,
let's go and have a look at the page. Now in the webpage, you see that
we now have the contact telephone number, which can be specified
as an area code within parenthesis, and
the telephone number next to it. The email can be entered
in the email field. Our next addition to
the font is a check box, which allows the user to specify whether
they want to be contacted or not. In addition, I am using a select
element in order to let the users specify whether they want to be
contacted by telephone or by email. So, adding these two. Looking at the code, you see that I have
a form-group here which encloses that. And inside of that I am defining
a div with a check box in here. And I have an input type
check box in there. And then correspondingly, the message there saying,
may we contact you? Question mark. So if the user checks the check box, then the user is indicating
that they could be contacted. So that is enclosed inside
this check box in here. Now below that,
I have a select element there. For the select element I have two options. Telephone and email. After making these changes,
let's go back and look at our webpage. Now before we go, let me show you how
we have styled these elements here, and how we have specified
the column classes. Now, as you recall, the form group
already provides the row class for us. So inside there, the checkbox div, I have given it appropriate
column specification there. And then also, the select element I have given the appropriate
column specification there. So I want you to make specific note
of this information in the coach. Now let's go and look at the page. Now you see that in the web page, we now have a check box which
we can check on or off. And then the message there, and also
this selector element which allows us to specify whether we want to be
contacted by telephone or email. The next element what we are adding
to the form is a textarea. This is the place where
the user can type in. They're comics. So here I am using another form-group for
that. And inside that form-group,
I have a label to specify the information. And then I am using another dev,
which in close text area whose values are set
to be 12 rows there so the text area will allow the user
to input 12 rows of text in there. So with these changes,
again going back to our webpage, this is the next result of adding
the text area to our webpage. So now you see that your feedback page is already taking very well. Our last addition to the form
is the submit button. So here I am creating a submit
button by using the button and specifying its type as submit. I specify the classes btn btn-primary and
then specify that the contents inside the button that should
be displayed the text inside the button. And also, I specified for the dev. I used the classes to appropriately
position the button in the. With these changes, let's go and
have one final look at our webpage. Going back to our webpage,
we now see that the form is now complete. So you can see that you have all
the various fields in the form. And also we have specified the button which the user clicks in order
to submit the form information. Now, taking one final look at
our web page, in this exercise we have added a new page called
contact us to HTML to our website. We styled the nav bar specifying icons for
all the links in the nav bar. Then we added the button
bar here that allows users to either call, Skype or
email the company. And finally we added a form for the users to send back
comments to the restaurant. And we used various form elements,
and Bootstrap's classes, in order to style the form appropriately. This completes this exercise.