What is Full Stack Web Development? Let me start by clarifying a few terms, so that we start with a common
understanding about this area. First, we hear people talking
about Front end and Back end, or sometimes the Client-side and
the Server-side. Now when we talk about Front end
we are primarily talking about presenting the data to the users. So this is where the users access
the web through the browser. And so we would be using
technologies like HTML, CSS and JavaScript to target the end users. The Back end is more concerned with the
business logic and the data aspect of our web application, so this might be
implemented in one of several languages. We often hear people talking about
the Three Tier Architecture for web development and implementation. Now in this approach, which is a common
client-server software architecture pattern, the entire development
is divided into three layers. The Presentation layer, which is
concerned with the UI related issues and how to present the data to the end-user. Then we have the Business Logic layer,
which is more concerned with data validation and processing the data in order to generate information for
the users. And then we have the Data Access layer, which deals with data persistence and storage of data behind the scenes,
for example, in a database. Exploring this further,
let's look at what is implemented in each of these
three layers in more detail. Now, the Business Logic layer is
typically implemented, traditionally, in a server,
where we use languages like Ruby, Python, C++, Java, on ASP.net,
to implement a server. This server in turn, is talking to
a Back end database management system to exchange data and
in turn, will be generating the Front end display of data to the user by Server-side rendering of the HTML,
CSS and JavaScript. This has been the traditional
approach that that has been used successfully
in the development. Now in this approach, we need specialists
in each of these three layers. So, you have a Front end specialist
who would be well versed in HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. And then you have
the Back end specialists, one who would be well-versed in
Server-side implementations, say, for example, one of the languages used for
Server-side implementation. And then you would have a data specialist
who would be mostly concerned with the databases and data persistence
aspect of our web development. There is an increasing trend towards
Full Stack Web Development where a single language is used for
implementation over the entire stack. So you could be having the front
implemented as a single page application, using one of the JavaScript
frameworks like AngularJS. Then the Server-side could be implemented
using technologies like NodeJS and NodeJS modules, which again,
depends on JavaScript. And then, the Data Access or
data storage part implemented using Technologies like MongoDB,
which works based on storing JSON data, and serving up information
in the form of JSON data. Now, JSON has become
the standard format for data interchange among the three layers. Server side increasingly
is delivering a REST API, so that you can target multiple
platforms through the REST API. So, essentially, the server is
serving up data in the form of JSON, which can then be rendered either
on a standard web browser, or on a mobile device using
one of the multiplied form, hybrid mobile application
development environments. So, in this particular specialization
we are targeting the entire stack. We'll look at HTML,
CSS, and JavaScript and then we will look at web UI
development using Bootstrap. Then we'll look at Front end
JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS. Then we'll look at NodeJS and
NodeJS Modules, and also review Back end as a service,
and also review data support through
MongoDB on the Server side.