As you begin this course
you must be wondering, what exactly will be
covered in this course? I am now going to explain to you
exactly what we are going to deal with in this course, and how it is positioned
in the bigger scheme of things in this full stack web
development specialization. Going back to our picture of the full
stack web development specialization, we are now still dealing with
the front end development. And in particular, in this course, we're gonna concentrate on the UI
framework, which is bootstrap. So in this scheme, this is the module
dealing with the bootstrap on the front-end side,
the presentation layer side. In this course, we are going to
cover bootstrap in a lot of detail. We'll also introduce you to web tools, in particular Node.js and NPM, and Bower. The remaining web tools we
will see in the next course. This course itself,
is organized into four modules, each module corresponding
to one week of work. In the first module we'll give
you the big picture view of Full Stack Web Development,
then we'll introduce you to Bootstrap. Then we'll talk about the responsive web
design, and the Bootstrap grid system. We'll also look at an important component
in Bootstrap, which is the navigation bar. And at the end of this module,
you will have your first assignment. As you go through this course, you will
be building up a website to help you to consolidate all the knowledge that
you are acquiring in this course. In the second module we will be dealing
with Bootstrap's CSS components. These components are pure CSS components, which means that they don't need
JavaScript for them to work. In particular, we'll look at user input
components, like buttons and forms. Then we'll look at displaying content,
using tables, panels and wells. Then we'll move on to image and
media, dealing with images, thumbnails and media objects that
are included in your webpage. Then we'll look at alerting users
by using things like labels, badges, alerts and progress bars. At the end of the second module
you'll have the second assignment 2. The third module deals exclusively with Bootstrap's JavaScript
supported components. So we'll look at the overview of
Bootstrap's JavaScript components, and we'll explore tabs, pills,
and tabbed navigation. Then we'll look at collapse,
accordion, ScrollSpy, and Affix. Then, we look at Tooltips,
Popovers and Modals. This pretty much covers all
the JavaScript components. We'll also look at Carousel as
an important component there. At the end of this module,
we'll have assignment 3 due. The final module rounds out our discussion
on bootstrap JavaScript competence, by dealing with Bootstrap and
jQuery, and how they work together. And we'll also see how Bootstrap's
JavaScript competence can be controlled through the JavaScript methods that
are available for this competence. Then we'll look at Node.js and
Node Package Manager. We'll also look at CSS preprocessors,
Less and Sass. Then we'll encounter our first web tool,
which is Bower. At the end of this module,
you'll have assignment 4. This completes this course. I hope you have a good time
going through this course and take the maximum benefit out of
learning the material in this course. This course will set
up the foundation upon which we'll build in
the following courses.