As you go through the course you must
be wondering how to make the best use of the learning resources
that are available to you. Let me take you through a quick journey of the learning resources that are
available to you within this course, and how you can maximize the benefit from
making use of these learning resources. The course content itself is
organized into multiple modules. A module has an overarching theme that
guides the content within that module. A module itself is organized
into several lectures. At the end of each module,
you will have an assignment that is due. Now, when you look at
the organization of the content, typically a module corresponds
to one calendar week of work. When you look at a typical
lecture within a module, a lecture will be organized
into several parts. At the beginning of the lecture,
you will have objectives and outcomes that are clearly specified. Thereafter, there will be
an introduction to some concepts and technologies that are related
to that particular lecture. Then it is followed by a review quiz. After that you will have a hands on
exercise where you will practice what you've just learned. And then finally, we will provide you with
a set of additional resources that you can follow through in order to further enhance
your understanding of the subject. To help us understand this more
concretely, let's pay a visit to your course website and then have a look
at the contents that are available there. So as you can see the course website, the course content is organized
under this section here. You will see that the course
content is organized into weeks. Each week corresponds to a module of work. Now, when you go into a particular week,
when you select a week, you would notice that the week
itself is organized into a set of lectures with a common theme for
the lectures. The whole module itself
has a common overarching theme that guides
the design of the module. As an example, let's take a look at
this lecture on responsive design and Bootstrap grid system. As you enter the lecture, it will start out with the objectives and
outcomes for this lecture. I would strongly suggest that
you read through this document in order to understand what you're
going to encounter in this lecture and what are the outcomes at
the end of this lecture. So at the completion of this
lecture set you should be able to do all the outcomes that
are listed in this document. Following this, you will see a set of
lectures that are available to you. So you can watch all of these lectures and
then after that, you will move on to a hands-on exercise that
will be delivered to you. So, the hands-on exercise
is delivered in two parts. One, So we have a video of the exercise itself, guiding you
through every step of the exercise. You also have a written document
that contains the instructions for the exercise. So, you should be watching the video in order to understand how
the exercise progresses. I will be explaining in
more detail in the video. But also together with that,
you have this written document where I have given the step by
step exercise instructions. So you can follow through and even the source code that I am using
in the exercises are available to you. So in case you decide to cut and
paste the source code, you can always obtain the source code
right here within this written document. At the end of the hands on exercise
you will have a quiz that will help you to review the concepts that you
have just seen in this lecture. And at the end of each lecture we also
have a set of additional resources. These are pointers to further
reading that you can pursue in order to enhance what
you have just learned. It's completely voluntary. You can find some these to
be very informative for you to read in your own spare time. So to summarize the learning resources
that are available to you within this course include video lectures,
then we have practice quizzes, then hands on exercise, both in the video
format as well as written instructions. And I would again remind you that
you should be watching the video of the exercise in order to understand how
the exercise progresses step by step, and then pointers to additional resources. The reason the learning resources
are organized the way they are is that the best way to learn is
not just focus on the concepts but also have hands-on practice so that it reinforces your
understanding of the concepts. So that is why we have
the hands-on exercises following the introduction to the concepts and
the technologies. Now this is where I would remind you of
the traditional Chinese proverb which says that what I hear, I forget, what I
see, I remember, what I do, I understand. So let me again emphasize the importance
of going through the hands-on exercises. That is the only way you will
completely understand the concepts and technologies that we cover in this course. Another related point that I wanted to
remind is from another proverb which says, he who learns does not think is lost,
he who thinks but does not learn is in great danger. Or rather, learning without
thinking begets ignorance. Thinking without learning
is very dangerous. Now, this is where let me emphasize
that as you go through the concepts and the technologies, and
as you do the hands on exercise, ask yourself the question,
why are you doing these steps. What exactly is it intended to convey
to you and what is the reason for doing the steps the way
they are being done? That is the only way you will completely
understand what you're going through. It is very easy to go through
this sort of exercises and concepts without thinking and at the end
you will end up learning nothing. Similarly, if you just skip
all the learning part and assumed that you've learned everything
then that is equally as dangerous. So please, spare some time to think
as you learn and to understand. We always have the discussion
forums where any questions related to the materials can
be clarified in more detail. I hope you have a very good learning
experience as you go through this course.