Let us now look at another interesting JavaScript component
in Bootstrap called the carousel. The carousel allows you to present
a slideshow on your webpage. Let's take a look at an example and then we'll come back and
consider the carousel in more detail. Going to our webpage, you can see that I have already included
the carousel component on the webpage. So you can see that the carousel
presents a set of slides that will keep sliding from left to right on the webpage. So this is an interesting way of
presenting content to the users. So a carousel is an interesting
component that allows us to present a slideshow on the webpage,
as you saw from the example. So the slides will keep sliding from
left to right with a time duration, typically around three
seconds between slides. The carousel also provides
manual control so that the users can navigate to any
of the slides within the carousel. We will look at all these
in more detail next. To add a carousel to your webpage, you
will add a div with the classes carousel and slide and also the data attribute,
data-ride, carousel. This is what turns this into a carousel
control by the JavaScript plugin. To add slides to the carousel, we will, inside the div that we have already
introduced for the carousel, we will introduce another div
with the class as carousel-inner. And inside this div, individual slides will be identified
by an inner div class item. One of those inner divs will be identified
as an active, meaning that when you first go to the webpage, that particular
slide will be presented to that user. So that is the first slide in the slide
deck being presented to the user. Now, each item can include
an image together with a caption. So inside the item div, you would include another div
with the class carousel caption. So inside this inner div with carousel
caption, you can include any HTML code. Typically, we would have a heading and
some text included there. Now, to introduce manual
controls to the carousel, we can have two different
kinds of controls. One control allows you to
select the specific slide. Now, this is introduced to the carousel
in the form of darts at the bottom, as you can see in the image there. You can select any one of those slides
by clicking one of the unfilled darts. If you click on those unfilled darts, you
will move to that particular slides there. The indicated controls are introduced
into the carousel by including an ol with the class carousel controls, and
the list items in there will contain two data attributes, the data target,
which is the mycarousel, and then the data-slide-to,
which will give the number of the slide to which you should move when
you click on that particular item. Carousel's also introduced left and
right indicators to the carousel. So the left and
right indicators can be shown as left and right arrow buttons on the two ends. In this case, we are introducing them
using the a tags with the classes left carousel-control and
right carousel-control. These classes can include inside
a glyphicon, so in this case I am using the left chevron and the right
chevron as the glyphicon inside, so that these controls can be shown on the screen
as the left and right buttons there. Clicking on these will manually
take you to the previous and the next slide in the carousel slide deck. Now we will move on to the next exercise. There we will introduce a carousel into
our webpage in the index storage TML page. Now, we will also introduce manual
controls to this carousel so we learn how to introduce manual controls
and make use of them on our carousel.