Let me now give you quick
overview of icon fonts, what are they,
how are they used on websites, and what advantages do they bring when
you use them within your websites. Icon fonts are a set of icons and cliffs. They can be used just like
regular font on your website so just like you use your standard
alphabets on your website, you can use icon fonts in any
location on your website. The advantages that icon fonts bring is
that they can be easily styled using CSS. Which means you can control the color,
size and background and many other features of
icon fonts using CSS. Icon fonts are a very light weight
replacement for graphics on your webpages. So if you have simple graphics,
instead of using images, you can use icon fonts as
an easy replacement for them. Now when your web site
includes icon fonts, they are downloaded
without needing additional requests being sent to your web site
in order to download the images. So that's one of the advantages why icon
fonts have gained a lot of popularity in usage on websites. Many different icon fonts are available
that are used by website designers. To help us understand how icon
fonts are used in websites, let's quickly visit your
course web page itself. Now, on the left side in the side bar, you can see that we have
a list of links there. In addition to the links,
to the left side of the links, we also have small graphical
icons included in the web page. All these icons have been
created using icon fonts. Let's take a look at few example
icon fonts that are used. In particular, in this course,
I'm gonna make you use of the Glyphicons. Glyphicons are already included as
part of the Bootstrap framework. In addition, I'm going to make use of Font Awesome,
which is another popular icon font. As I mentioned, Glyphicons
are already included in Bootstrap. To make use of Glyphicons, on any location
in your webpage, you use the span tag. To the span tag you will give
a class as glyphicon and then the specific class for the icon
that you are using at the location. So in this example you see me using the
Glyphicon home as the second class there. Glyphicon home corresponds to
the home icon in the glyphicon set. Glyphicons included in Bootstrap
are about 250 in number. Another popular icon
font that I mentioned, that we will make use of in this course,
is Font Awesome. Now Font Awesome includes
a large set of icons. And provide you with a large variety of
icons that you can use on your website. Now once you take a look at Font Awesome
you're gonna say, awesome man. Okay, okay, okay. You can laugh as much as you want. I am definitely not going to
pretend to be a teenager. Okay coming back to icon fonts. They way you use icon fonts on
your website, Is to use the i tag. To the i tag, you would give
a class as fa and then fa hyphen the specific icon that you're
using at that location. So in this example, you see me using
fa fa phone, meaning the phone icon will be substituted in that
particular location on your webpage. How do you make use of
Font Awesome in your web project? You need to download the Font Awesome
distribution files, and then you should include the CSS files that are part
of Font Awesome, into your web project. And the fonts will automatically be used. Now one way that I use
Font Awesome in my web projects is after they download
the Font Awesome distribution files, then I will copy the CSS files from
the CSS folder of the Font Awesome folder into the CSS
folder of my web project. And also I will copy the fonts
from the Font Awesome folder into the fonts folder of my web project. That's how I have been using. You can include these Font Awesome files
in any other way that you choose to. Another CSS class that I am going
to make use of in the exercise that follows this lecture
is Bootstrap-social. Bootstrap-social is a CSS
class that is available to style some buttons for social web sites. Bootstrap-social makes use of
Font Awesome's icon fonts that are representing the logos for
the various social websites. Now, Bootstrap-social adds additional
features to those Font Awesome icons. So for example,
it takes the Font Awesome icon and then turns it into a button for
the various social media sites. How do you make use of Bootstrap-social? You download Bootstrap-social.CSS file and
then include it into your webpage. Then wherever you need to
include a button to a social website then you will include a A tag and
give it a class as button. Button, of course, buttons which we
will examine in the next module. Then you specify buttons social icon, and button for
the specific social website. So, in this example, you will see me
referring to button Facebook, and then In addition, you would be including the Font Awesome icon for
that particular social media site. So that's why you see me using there
the i class, fa, and the fa-facebook to use the Facebook icon that is included
as part of the Font Awesome set. Now we will move on to our
next hands on exercise. We will, in this exercise, go back to
the website what we have been designing so far and then include the nav
bar into our web page. In addition,
we'll make use of both Glyphicons and then Font Awesome icons in various
locations on our web page. We'll also use Bootstrap-social
to include some social website buttons in
the footer of our webpage.