Our next exercise examines
the use of Bootstrap and JQuery together in particular,
using the Bootstrap's JavaScript methods in order to control some of
the JavaScript components in Bootstrap. In this exercise, we're gonna introduce a
couple of buttons to control the carousel. We'll be able to start and stop the slide transitions in
the carousel using these buttons. These buttons will be activated using
Bootstrap's JS component methods. You can see the slide transitions
in the index.html page. Now, you see that we have introduced
two buttons at the right corner of the carousel, which allow us to
control the slide transitions. We can pause the slide transitions so that the transitions
are completely paused. We can then resume the slide transitions
by clicking on the Resume button there. Now these two buttons
are gonna be introduced using the Bootstrap's JavaScript paste methods. How do we introduce these controls? We'll go to the index.html page, and inside the carousel we will introduce
the two buttons as a button group. Let me add the code, and
then we'll come back and review this. You can now see that I have introduced
a button group here with the ID "carouselButtons" and
this contains two buttons in there. There are two buttons,
the first one containing the pause glyphicon, inside there. And the second button here,
having the play glyphicon inside there. So these two buttons get
added to the carousel. To position the carousel
control buttons correctly, I have added a CSS class here for
the carousel buttons. This CSS class gives the right and bottom to 0 pixels and
the position as absolute. This will move the button group to
the bottom right corner of the carousel. Our final modification to
the index.html page is to add the JavaScript code to
the end of the page, just before the end of the body tag. So here, you can see that I have
pasted the JavaScript code here with the $(document).ready(function(){
driving this code here. So, inside there,
the first thing that I have done is to set the transition interval
to two seconds by specifying for the mycarousel the interval as 2000. I have also introduced two new functions
here, corresponding to the pause and the play button that we have
just introduced in the carousel. For the Pause button, you can see that
I am, when the Pause button is clicked, the carousel is going to be paused by
calling the .carousel('pause'); method. Similarly, when the Play
button is clicked, the .carousel('cycle'); method is called. With these changes, the two control
buttons for the carousel are now active. So we can now pause the slide transitions, as well as resume the slide transitions
by clicking the two buttons there. So again, going back to the web page, you can see that I can pause the
transitions by clicking the Pause button, and so the transitions
are completely paused at this point. I can always resume transitions
by clicking the Resume button which resumes the transitions
of the slides in the carousel. This completes this exercise. In this exercise we have examined
the use of JavaScript-based controls for the Bootstrap Carousel JS component.